---
year: 2017
month: 9
date: 9/2017
authors:
  - "Matsuo, Tadashi"
  - "Fukuhara, Hiroya"
  - "Shimada, Nobutaka"
generated: true
key: 6HLRPZAB
version: 2254
itemType: journalArticle
title: Transform invariant auto-encoder
publicationTitle: 2017 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS)
pages: 2359-2364
DOI: 10.1109/IROS.2017.8206047
url: "http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8206047/"
accessDate: "2024-10-28T14:54:57Z"
libraryCatalog: Semantic Scholar
extra: "Conference Name: 2017 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS) ISBN: 9781538626825 Place: Vancouver, BC Publisher: IEEE"
collections:
  - ERQKEKFA
dateAdded: "2024-10-28T14:54:57Z"
dateModified: "2024-10-28T14:55:35Z"
super_collections:
  - ERQKEKFA
filename: Matsuo et al. 2017 - Transform invariant auto-encoder
marker: "[🇿](zotero://select/library/items/6HLRPZAB)"
---

>[!warning] Warning
> This note should not be modified as it can be overwritten by the plugin which generated it

> [!title] Transform invariant auto-encoder

> [!example] File
> [Matsuo et al. 2017 - Transform invariant auto-encoder](Matsuo%20et%20al.%202017%20-%20Transform%20invariant%20auto-encoder.pdf)

> [!abstract] Abstract
> The auto-encoder method is a type of dimensionality reduction method. A mapping from a vector to a descriptor that represents essential information can be automatically generated from a set of vectors without any supervising information. However, an image and its spatially shifted version are encoded into different descriptors by an existing ordinary auto-encoder because each descriptor includes a spatial subpattern and its position. To generate a descriptor representing a spatial subpattern in an image, we need to normalize its spatial position in the images prior to training an ordinary auto-encoder; however, such a normalization is generally difficult for images without obvious standard positions. We propose a transform invariant auto-encoder and an inference model of transform parameters. By the proposed method, we can separate an input into a transform invariant descriptor and transform parameters. The proposed method can be applied to various auto-encoders without requiring any special modules or labeled training samples. By applying it to shift transforms, we can achieve a shift invariant auto-encoder that can extract a typical spatial subpattern independent of its relative position in a window. In addition, we can achieve a model that can infer shift parameters required to restore the input from the typical subpattern. As an example of the proposed method, we demonstrate that a descriptor generated by a shift invariant auto-encoder can represent a typical spatial subpattern. In addition, we demonstrate the imitation of a human hand by a robot hand as an example of a regression based on spatial subpatterns.

